
*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 73807 ***





                                ADDRESS
                                  OF
                          PRESIDENT McKINLEY,

                         AT THE DEDICATION OF
                          THE GRANT MONUMENT,

                               NEW YORK,

                            APRIL 27, 1897.


                            [Illustration]


                              WASHINGTON:
                                 1897.




FELLOW-CITIZENS:

A great life, dedicated to the welfare of the Nation, here finds its
earthly coronation. Even if this day lacked the impressiveness of
ceremony and was devoid of pageantry, it would still be memorable,
because it is the anniversary of the birth of one of the most famous
and best-beloved of American soldiers.

Architecture has paid high tribute to the leaders of mankind, but never
was a memorial more worthily bestowed or more gratefully accepted by a
free people than the beautiful structure before which we are gathered.

In marking the successful completion of this work, we have as witnesses
and participants representatives of all branches of our Government, the
resident officials of foreign nations, the governors of States, and
the sovereign people from every section of our common country, who join
in this august tribute to the soldier, patriot, and citizen.

Almost twelve years have passed since the heroic vigil ended and the
brave spirit of Ulysses S. Grant fearlessly took its flight. Lincoln
and Stanton had preceded him, but of the mighty captains of the war
Grant was the first to be called. Sherman and Sheridan survived him,
but have since joined him on the other shore.

The great heroes of the civil strife on land and sea are for the most
part now no more. Thomas and Hancock, Logan and McPherson, Farragut,
Dupont, and Porter, and a host of others have passed forever from human
sight. Those remaining grow dearer to us, and from them and the memory
of those who have departed generations yet unborn will draw their
inspiration and gather strength for patriotic purpose.

A great life never dies. Great deeds are imperishable; great names
immortal. General Grant’s services and character will continue
undiminished in influence and advance in the estimation of mankind
so long as liberty remains the corner-stone of free government and
integrity of life the guaranty of good citizenship.

Faithful and fearless as a volunteer soldier, intrepid and invincible
as Commander in Chief of the Armies of the Union, calm and confident
as President of a reunited and strengthened Nation which his genius
had been instrumental in achieving, he has our homage and that of the
world; but brilliant as was his public character, we love him all the
more for his home life and homely virtues. His individuality, his
bearing and speech, his simple ways, had a flavor of rare and unique
distinction, and his Americanism was so true and uncompromising that
his name will stand for all time as the embodiment of liberty, loyalty,
and national unity.

Victorious in the work which under Divine Providence he was called
upon to do; clothed with almost limitless power; he was yet one of the
people――patient, patriotic, and just. Success did not disturb the even
balance of his mind, while fame was powerless to swerve him from the
path of duty. Great as he was in war, he loved peace, and told the
world that honorable arbitration of differences was the best hope of
civilization.

With Washington and Lincoln, Grant has an exalted place in history and
the affections of the people. To-day his memory is held in equal esteem
by those whom he led to victory and by those who accepted his generous
terms of peace. The veteran leaders of the Blue and the Gray here meet
not only to honor the name of the departed Grant, but to testify to the
living reality of a fraternal national spirit which has triumphed over
the differences of the past and transcends the limitations of sectional
lines. Its completion, which we pray God to speed, will be the nation’s
greatest glory.

It is right, then, that General Grant should have a memorial
commensurate with his greatness and that his last resting place should
be the city of his choice, to which he was so attached in life and of
whose ties he was not forgetful even in death. Fitting, too, is it that
the great soldier should sleep beside the noble river on whose banks he
first learned the art of war and of which he became master and leader
without a rival.

But let us not forget the glorious distinction with which the metropolis
among the fair sisterhood of American cities has honored his life and
memory. With all that riches and sculpture can do to render the edifice
worthy of the man, upon a site unsurpassed for magnificence, has this
monument been reared by New York as a perpetual record of his
illustrious deeds, in the certainty that as time passes, around it will
assemble with gratitude and reverence and veneration, men of all climes,
races, and nationalities. New York holds in its keeping the precious
dust of the silent soldier; but his achievements――what he and his brave
comrades wrought for mankind――are in the keeping of seventy millions of
American citizens, who will guard the sacred heritage forever and
forevermore.


                   *       *       *       *       *



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK 73807 ***
